# MSc-Thesis
## Analytical and Numerical Explorations in Matrix Product Representations for Qudit States
# Abstract
Quantum many-body systems are challenging to deal with because the underlying Hilbert space grows exponentially. As a result, the matrix product state (MPS) representation is ideal for quantum many-body states where correlations are formed in a ‘local’ manner. The density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) technique, which is the foundation for a large number of recent breakthroughs in quantum information and condensed matter theory, is based on this MPS representation. This thesis examines the left canonical MPS (LCMPS), right canonical MPS (RCMPS), and mixed canonical MPS (MCMPS) representations in depth, with a special emphasis on the reshaped matrices obtained in the representation for any qudit state. With analytical and numerical calculations, we have discussed the whole procedure of the MPS representation in depth. We have discovered interesting patterns and regions pertaining to the reshaped matrices. Using the novel methods we have developed, one can predict the dimensions of the reshaped matrices very easily for any qudit state. Generalized codes are written for LCMPS, RCMPS and MCMPS which can work for any value of d and L and thus for any pure quantum state of any qudits and for any partition p (in case of MCMPS). We have also worked on several operations on the MPS representation of a quantum state, such as overlap, matrix elements, and expectation value, and developed generalised codes for these operations. In addition, the procedure for obtaining reduced density operators from MPS representations of any qudit quantum state has been thoroughly explained and the generalized codes are written for it which can work for any pure quantum state and any bipartition
